# Introduction

The Emploai API is organized around [REST](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer). Our API has predictable resource-oriented URLs, accepts form-encoded request bodies, returns JSON-encoded responses, and uses standard HTTP response codes, authentication, and verbs.

You can use the Emploai API in test mode, which does not affect your live data or interact with the notification systems. The API key you use to [authenticate](/#authentication) the request determines whether the request is live mode or test mode.

The Emploai API differs for every account as we release new [versions](/#versioning) and tailor functionality. Log in to see docs customized to your version of the API, with your test key and data.

# Authentication

> To authorize, use this code:

```ruby
require 'Emploai'

api = Emploai::APIClient.authorize!('your_api_key')
```

```python
import Emploai

api = Emploai.authorize('your_api_key')
```

```bash
# With shell, you can just pass the correct header with each request
curl "api_endpoint_here"
  -H "Authorization: your_api_key"
```

```javascript
const Emploai = require('Emploai');

let api = Emploai.authorize('your_api_key');
```

> Make sure to replace `your_api_key` with your API key.

Emploai uses API keys to allow access to the API. You can view and manage your API keys in the Emploai Dashboard.

Your API keys carry many privileges, so be sure to keep them secure! Do not share your secret API keys in publicly accessible areas such as GitHub, client-side code, and so forth.

All API requests must be made over HTTPS. Calls made over plain HTTP will fail. API requests without authentication will also fail.

Emploai expects for the API key to be included in all API requests to the server in a header that looks like the following:

`Authorization: your_api_key`

<aside class=notice>
You must replace <code>your_api_key</code> with your instance specific API key.
</aside>

# Versioning

When we make backwards-incompatible changes to the API, we release new, dated versions. The current version is 2019-03-14. Read our API upgrades guide to see our API changelog and to learn more about backwards compatibility.

All requests will use your account API settings, unless you override the API version. The changelog lists every available version. Note that events generated by API requests will always be structured according to your account API version.

To set the API version on a specific request, send a Emploai-Version header.

You can visit your Dashboard to upgrade your API version. As a precaution, use API versioning to test a new API version before committing to an upgrade.

# Contacts

## Get All Contacts

```ruby
require 'Emploai'

api = Emploai::APIClient.authorize!('your_api_key')
api.contacts.get
```

```python
import Emploai

api = Emploai.authorize('your_api_key')
api.contacts.get()
```

```bash
curl "https://example.com/api/contacts"
  -H "Authorization: your_api_key"
```

```javascript
const Emploai = require('Emploai');

let api = Emploai.authorize('your_api_key');
let contacts = api.contacts.get();
```

> The above command returns JSON structured like this:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john@example.com",
    "mobile": 'xxx xxx xxxx',
    "orgcode": 'example-talent'
  },
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Jane Dear",
    "email": "jane@example.com",
    "mobile": 'xxx xxx xxxx',
    "orgcode": 'example-talent'
  }
]
```

This endpoint retrieves all contacts.

### HTTP Request

`GET https://example.com/api/contacts`

### Query Parameters

Parameter | Default | Description
--------- | ------- | -----------
include_internal | false | If set to true, the result will also include internal contacts.
available | true | If set to true, the result will only include contacts that have indicated availability in the last 1 month.

<aside class=success>
Remember — a contact is considered active only when they have signed in atleast once!
</aside>

## Get a Specific Contact

```ruby
require 'Emploai'

api = Emploai::APIClient.authorize!('your_api_key')
api.contacts.get(2)
```

```python
import Emploai

api = Emploai.authorize('your_api_key')
api.contacts.get(2)
```

```bash
curl "https://example.com/api/contacts/2"
  -H "Authorization: your_api_key"
```

```javascript
const Emploai = require('Emploai');

let api = Emploai.authorize('your_api_key');
let max = api.contacts.get(2);
```

> The above command returns JSON structured like this:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "Jane Dear",
  "email": "jane@example.com",
  "mobile": 'xxx xxx xxxx',
  "orgcode": 'example-talent'
}
```

This endpoint retrieves a specific contact.

### HTTP Request (with ID)

`GET https://example.com/contacts/<ID>`

### URL Parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
ID | The ID of the contact to retrieve
